# Product Range Analysis Portfolio

### For better view of graphs, click 👉 [Product Range Analysis](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/Emmanuel-Nti/product_range_analysis/blob/master/final_project_e_nti.ipynb)


| Project Description | Libraries Used | Source of Data |
| :---------------------- | :---------------------- | :---------------------- | 
|In 2019, there were about 1.92 billion digital buyers across the world economy. This means e-commerce is growing rapidly. As e-commerce continues to thrive, traditional brick and mortar establishments are modifying and digitalizing their business models to keep up to or beat competitions. This has increased competition in the e-commerce industry. To enhance marketing, optimize prices, to deeply understand customer expectations, etc, demands analytics. As a junior analyst at an online store that sells household goods, my task is to analyze the store's product range between 29/11/2018 and 07/12/2019.  | *Pandas*, *Matplotlib.pyplot*, *Plotly*, *Seaborn*, *Numpy*, *Scipy*, *Scikit-learn*, *Scikit-plot*, *Itertools*, *Collections* | Practicum by Yandex |

### Conclusion From the Project 

There were 4206 unique products. The maximum ordered quantity was 80995 and the minimum ordered qunatity was -80995.
The quantity of products ordered had a mean of about 10 and a standard deviation of about 219.
The highest unit price of a product costed £38,970.
Unit price had a mean on about £4.6.
Invoice number 573585 had the highest number of products ordered (1113 products). The top ten invoices shows the customers of the store are mostly wholesalers.
Kitchen ware is the most frequently purchased category, plant and accessories are the least frequently purchased category.
The highest daily orders was on November 30th, 2018, followed by November 15th, 2019 (141 and 136 orders respectively). The lowest daily order was on 4th February 2019 - just 11 orders.
The number of total monthly orders from December 2018 to November increased by about 121%.
Revenues are comparatively lower from January to July and higher from August to November.
Regency cakestand 3 tier and paper craft, little birdie are the top two products in term of revenue generations. Regency cakestand 3 tier generated a revenue amounting to about 174,200 - the highest.
The most cancelled product order is Regency cakestand 3 tier - cancelled 180 times.
on average, paper craft, little birdie generated the highest revenue - about £168,469.
on average, Kitchen ware generated the least revenue - about £18 while home decorations generated the highest- about £23.
There were 1501 products that were sold by themselves. Rabbit night light was sold alone 32 times- the most sold alone product.
About 99.7% of the products were sold together with others - additional assortment.
Jumbo bag and pink polkadot and jumbo bag red retrospot were the products most often sold together.
White hanging heart t-light holder was the product sold the most with others - about 2300 times. Kitchen ware was most often included in additioanl assortment (about 152,610 times) and plant and accessories was the least - about 15,840 times.
event and partycategory was mostly present in shopping carts with Kitchen ware

The difference between average revenue from home decorations and Kitchen ware statistically significant.

The average revenue generated by paper craft, little birdie is not statistically and significantly different from average revenue from all other products.
### Recommendations From the Project

Since about 99.7% of products are included in additional assortment, there is a need to create a product recommendation system.
Home decorations is the third most purchased category but has the highest average revenue. Hence, invest more in advertising home decorations to boost purchase rate and revenue.
As plant and accessories are the least frequently purchased category, increase advertising investment to enhance orders.
Regency cakestand 3 tier is the leading revenue generator on aggragate but the most cancelled product order. Pay much attention to this product. For instance, why does it often get cancelled? If the cancellation rate is minimized, revenue would be maximized.

## Description of Data
The dataset contains the transaction history of an online store that sells household goods.
The columns are as follows:

- `InvoiceNo:` — order identifier

- `StockCode:` — item identifier

- `Description:` — item name

- `Quantity:`

- `InvoiceDate:` — order date

- `UnitPrice:` — price per item
